# Design

## Salinity Resistance

## PHB

Error-prone PCR is a commonly use approach to generate mutant libraries using low-fidelity DNA polymerases such as Taq M0267 lacking 3’-5’ exonuclease proof-reading abilities (1) Increasing MgCl­2 concentrations further decreases fidelity, increasing mutation rates. 
To generate a mutant library for phaB, the rate-limiting gene involved in PHB biosynthesis, a plasmid construct was designed with the complete phaCAB operon. This construct was derived from the iGEM part [BBa_K1149051](https://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K1149051) which contained a hybrid constitutive and native promotor and the phaCAB operon. This part was optimised for bioplastic production in E.coli MG1655 and for directed evolution, the strong promotor would enable easier quantification of PHB production using Nile red fluorescence. We modified the part to contain BsaI overhangs, which would enable us to digest and ligate the ordered G-block into a level 1 plasmid backbone (DVK_AE) from the Cyanogate parts kit we were provided with thanks to the MacCormick lab. Additionally, we included a double terminator (BBa_B0015) in the G-block design. Two primer pairs, one for replicating the plasmid backbone and phaCA, and a second pair for phaB were designed. Two PCR reactions would have been run, one high-fidelity reaction to replicate a linearised backbone for phaCA, and a separate epPCR reaction with low-fidelity polymerase to generate a library of phaB mutants. The two reaction products would then be digested and ligated together to form a circularised level 1 plasmid for phaCAB* where * denotes a mutagenized gene. This would have been transformed into E.coli and expression of PHB would have been quantified by a fluorescent plate reader-based assay using Nile red. Unfortunately, we planned to synthesize the G-block as a level 1 insert from IDT but our level 1 insert was 4.43kb. IDT only synthesizes G-blocks up to 3kb in size and so we were forced to either redesign or abandon this project. Due to the added complexity of having a dual plasmid system with one containing phaCA and another containing phaB, we decided to focus efforts on salinity resistance. The main issue with dual plasmids was that one would likely be in level 1, and another in level T (containing origins of replication for cyanobacteria as well as E.coli) to prevent plasmid loss from the same origin of replication. Additionally, generating a mutant library with both plasmids by co-transformation would have added extra complexity to the project. Due to time pressures and a desire to focus on one directed evolution project, we didn’t follow through with this project.

## References

1. [WILSON, D. S. & KEEFE, A. D. 2001. Random mutagenesis by PCR. Curr Protoc Mol Biol, Chapter 8, Unit8.3.](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18265275/)